---
title:  "Dawa"
metadate: "hide"
categories: [ Participant, UI, Graphics ]
image: "/assets/images/story5.jpg"
---

 Hello World!
 
Am Dawa Edina Hillary a  second time South Sudanese refugee in Uganda, I was brought to Uganda when I was one month old and we went back to South Sudan after a year because my mom was uncomfortable living in the camp so we were staying in South Sudan but deep in the bush around 22KM from the town and 5km from the main road.This time I came alone to the Camp in 2013 at the beginning of the tribal war, I fainted twice because of gunshots so I left South Sudan and ran for my life.

 

I was working with CTEN as an ICT instructor for a year, and I undergone many trainings to mention but a few ( CISCO instructors training, ASKnet training where I learnt ["how to build LED light,  Phone charger,  how to make a water filter prototyping, A local Network dish"] ,how to make briquettes, video editing training, etc. But unfortunately the project ended and my contract as well, so am back to square one i mean am now a job seeker.

    
>Motivation

I asked my dad a question when I was 6 years old, it was late in the evening, everyone laughed and went to sleep without telling me the answer so in the morning they nicknamed meðŸ˜©ðŸ˜ ðŸ˜¨ but I can't share my nickname with you guys. 
 And that question keeps on motivating me from day one of my life's journey, 
My dad didn't answer my question, He told me when I was joining secondary school that he can only help me to find the answer but he can't find it for me, because I may end up waiting for ready things for the rest of my life . Meaning he can help by paying my tuition but I should concentrate and find the answer to my question. 
And upto now am still searching for the answer because I want it in details.

>Guess what the question wasðŸ˜ðŸ˜

"Do drivers collect firewood to use at night when travelling?"

Because that time I didn't know that vehicle has lights
I Use to come to the roadside on Sundays only for prayers and of course it's during the day, I never saw a vehicle moving at night.
My dad was a soldier so he told us a story of their movement during war how they can travel for a week day and night movement so that night movement disturbed me for almost a week and had to ask. 

 The ASKnet training that i attended in 2018 helped me a lot in finding my answer, through ASKnet I learnt how to build LED light

>Message to my fellow Refugees

Being a refugee should never put you down, It's not the end of the world, you should never underestimate yourself just because you are a refugee,  everything happens for a reason you should find opportunity in every challenge,
Many organisations have come to help us in one way or another through trainings, food distributions, financial support and as on.
But sometimes we the refugees we don't actual know what we want, we always run for money that helps for one or two days living trainings that can feed you family for a life time, please let's take take trainings serious, even in your own country if you are not serious. You may go begging to put food on the Table, 

>Peace message

South Sudan will be great one day but are you prepared to be in the great country
We should stop blame the leaders, we are refugees today because of you and me not the tribes we are blaming and not leaders
Did the leaders for once held a gun and shoot no! Did the tribe hold a gun and shoot no, it's you and me,
The leaders are using us especially the youths to kill ourselves, can't we say "NO that's enough, we  are tired of shedding blood?" 
It's possible you're fighting to help your tribe mate, relative or a friend but did you see their children in the fight? No because the people you are fighting for knew that it's a dangerous game you may loss your life in the process and innocent souls may also be taken, so they have taken their children and families abroad, they are busy driving expensive cars, living in mansions but you can't even afford sandals to protect your feet from sun heat. 
Arise and shine
Talk to your boss, friend, sister,  brother That enough is enough no more blood shed in South Sudan


INCOMPLETE STORY

TO BE CONTINUED. .................

